title: Home
layout: home

Introduction:

This is my ePortfolio showcasing a collection of code artifacts that I developed during my time in the Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU) Computer Science Program. These projects cover a wide range of coding languages and application types including mobile development, algorithm and data structure concepts, and full stack web development. My ePortfolio demonstrates my ability to design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.

Professional Self-Assessment:


**Introduction:

This is my ePortfolio showcasing a collection of code artifacts that I developed during my time in the Southern New Hampshire University (SNHU) Computer Science Program. These projects cover a wide range of coding languages and application types including mobile development, algorithm and data structure concepts, and full stack web development. My ePortfolio demonstrates my ability to design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.

**Professional Self-Assessment:

I started at SNHU in March of 2023 with the goal to complete my degree in computer science. I have worked in the computer science field since 2017 after completing a coding bootcamp and wanted to elevate my development skills and obtain more comprehensive experience in a variety of coding languages and practices. I mostly develop using the MERN/MEAN stack (Mongo, Express, React/Angular, Node) and this degree program has helped me expand my knowledge in languages such as Python, Java, C++, Android mobile development, and OpenGL. I know that after completing this degree I will be more marketable to potential employers to obtain more senior level software engineering positions. This program included courses like CS310 Collaboration and Team Projects that gave me valuable time working on group development projects and contributing to shared Bitbucket libraries and practicing Git branching and version control. In CS320 - Software Testing, Automation, and Quality Assurance, I was able to build and utilize custom unit tests and explain why they are relevant to modern computer science practices. I believe that courses like CS250 - Software Development Lifecycle were the most beneficial to help myself develop as a more job-ready developer. I was able to take the role of different members of an agile scrum development team, and learn how to write valuable user stories, test cases, and sprint reviews. This developed my ability to employ strategies for building collaborative environments that enable diverse audiences to support organizational decision making in the field of computer science. I have stepped into more project management roles in my career, and it is where I want to focus my search for my next job, and this course allowed me to practice these skills in real world applicable situations. Throughout my time at SNHU, I have enhanced my ability to write professional-grade, well commented and documented code that other developers can read and understand my thought process and intentions, and this shows that I can design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.  I also have grown my skills in time management, writing code documentation, and large development planning, because companies don't just expect their programmers to be able to build functional code, but be able to work in fast paced team environments while meeting ever changing deadlines and project scope.

When deciding which artifacts to include in my ePortfolio, I wanted to show my ability to work on a variety of projects that are different to work I could show to a potential employer from my current development job. My first artifact for "Software Design and Engineering" is a weight tracking app built for Android devices from CS - 360 Mobile Architecture and Programming. This artifact category was meant to improve a piece of software and explain its complexity, and I found myself wanting to return to this project that on my first submission was a more basic mobile application that allowed users to track daily weight changes saved to a user profile. This was my first mobile application, and during the initial build I planned to add new functionality to increase marketability and mimic other health tracking mobile applications. This artifact demonstrated my ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices to implement computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals. For my "Algorithms and data structure" artifact, I chose my final project from CS - 300 "Data Structure and Algorithms: Analysis and Design", a program that sorted college course lists and allowed users to add courses then view the sorted list. I added additional complexity to the data structure with the ability to save a schedule and improved the efficiency of the algorithm logic. This displayed my ability to Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices. Finally for the databases category, I chose my final project CS - 340 "Advanced Programming Concepts". This application combined a dashboard built in Python through Jupyter Notebook that displayed information from an animal rescue that allowed users to see data on individual pets with corresponding map location data and statistics. This was connected to a MongoDB database that was manipulated through CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) routes, and I enhanced it by adding the ability to add a picture to a pet's record and have that save to their database record. This demonstrated my ability to develop a security mindset that anticipates adversarial exploits in software architecture and designs to expose potential vulnerabilities, mitigate design flaws, and ensure privacy and enhanced security of data and resources. This group of chose artifacts represents a cohesive body of work from my time at SNHU and demonstrate my ability to meet all the course outcomes.

** Code Review

Code review is the process where developers take time to reflect on a project to review their code base to check for any issues, syntax errors and functionality problems that may have been missed during the build process. In computer science jobs code review is an essential part of the daily activities for both solo and team builds. The review process helps teams collaborate and return to any problem areas before the code makes it to production. During development pushes, coders often miss issues with only one set of eyes on the project and taking a second look can catch a lot of these issues. When reviewing code you should try and review smaller blocks for a set length of time. Giving yourself set blocks to review prevents creep and keeps the session focused on specific areas and limiting it to a set time frame ensures that you won’t get caught up in every single small detail and may create additional issues.
	I used OBS to record my code review. I have seen it used for screen casting videos on YouTube and it was free to download and use. It took some time to get set up correctly and I recorded a whole video before realizing the mic input was wrong and had to run it again. I took time to review all three projects beforehand as it has been months since I worked on these code bases. I then highlighted a few key points in the code to review and filmed a few practice sessions before doing the main recording. 

 Code Review Link to my Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Shxm_f_fQI4

 **Artifact 1: Software Design and Engineering
 
 Original Code Files: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/0f7aebce329ea6b6384bb38991ec233b52736cc8/Artifact1/WeightTrackingApp%20Jack%20Coster%20Original.zip

 Enhanced Code Files: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/0f7aebce329ea6b6384bb38991ec233b52736cc8/Artifact1/WeightTrackingApp%20Jack%20Coster%20CS499%20Enhanced.zip

 Narrative: 

 This artifact is my final project from CS360 Mobile Architecture and Development which is a weight tracking application where users enter an initial goal weight and then their progress is tracked daily. I selected this item for my ePortfolio because it was the first time I had developed a mobile application, and it showcased my flexibility to build code projects across a wide spectrum of languages. In my initial build I did not have very complex functionality in the Android application, and the app was only able to add a new goal weight and add the daily weight. I updated the daily weight entry page to have the goal weight stated at the top of the page, and gave the ability to edit the goal weight, save today’s weight, and enter in a description of what you ate for the day. I intend to add more to this bottom section to let the user describe their workout or link it to other workout applications like Strava. I also added a new progress tracking page that has a progress bar that fills up and updates daily as you enter in new weights with a percentage tracking based off your starting weight and current weight. I plan on adding a new bar line graph to show your progress, but this still needs adjusting so I did not include it in this submission. 
This enhanced artifact meets the course outcome “Demonstrate an ability to use well-founded and innovative techniques, skills, and tools in computing practices for the purpose of implementing computer solutions that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals.” I created more robust and efficient code that deliver value and accomplish industry-specific goals by adding new modules to the daily weight tracking view that fall in line with common health tracking applications. The ability to add more information to your daily weight update gives value to the end user by giving them the ability to have more details on their health journey and form trends based on food and workout info. I also used innovative coding techniques and skills to add new elements in the Java code files and have it reflect accurately as intended on the XML view in app, especially when building the progress tracking bar. It also meets the course outcome “Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts.” I used well thought out introductions to that file’s functionality in each header and used industry standard code comment techniques throughout the build.
This was the most challenging artifact for me as I found mobile development so different than what I am used to for web development especially when working on layouts and connections for buttons and databases. This is something I have never had to work with in my computer science career outside of this class, so I am curious to continue building on this project and learning more about more advanced mobile development techniques.


Artifact 2: Algorithims and Data Structures

Original Code: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/0f7aebce329ea6b6384bb38991ec233b52736cc8/Artifact2/CS%20499%20Jack%20Coster%20Artifact%202%20Original.cpp

Enhanced Code: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/0f7aebce329ea6b6384bb38991ec233b52736cc8/Artifact2/CS%20499%20Artifact%202%20Ehanced.cpp

Narrative: This artifact is project two from the course CS- 300 DSA: Analysis and Design in which I was tasked to create advising and assistance software for a fake college ABCU University by using algorithms and data structures to help students find/add/delete courses from an external CSV file. This was created during the term 2024 C4 (July-August). This artifact is the second part of the project where I used a binary search tree to effectively intake the course data, add it to the course list, then sort the course list alphanumerically with the ability to then delete a course if needed then exit the application through a user input menu. To enhance this artifact, I looked at how I could add to the user experience of this simple application by adding two additional menu options and their corresponding functions. I added the ability to add a course to a student’s schedule and then display that schedule if desired. This showcased my ability to adapt the existing data structure to include new functionality that enhanced the original scope of the project into something that was more applicable to a more real-world application. Considering the project was intended to be for a university, I thought about how my experience in schedule building software went during my time at SNHU and how my data structure in this application should align with that. I also focused on improving the efficiency of the binary search tree algorithm by focusing on efficiency upgrades and adding recursion functionality in the search and deletion methods. This artifact helped me meet two of the computer science program outcomes. In my first submission of this project, I neglected to include sufficient code comments and did not include a detailed into comment in the header describing what the intent of the project was who built it. During my enhancement process I made sure to include a detailed introduction to the project with the application goals, programmer introduction of myself and when it was built, and an overview of the enhancements I built in the updated project. I also went through the entire application and added code comments explaining functionality throughout the data structure and functions to give new users and other developers insight into how the programs works. These additions helped me meet the outcome “Design, develop, and deliver professional-quality oral, written, and visual communications that are coherent, technically sound, and appropriately adapted to specific audiences and contexts”. I showed that I can effectively develop and deliver professional sounding written communication through my updated code comments and project introduction that can be understood by fellow developers and other end users. The second course outcome I achieved through this enhancement was “Design and evaluate computing solutions that solve a given problem using algorithmic principles and computer science practices and standards appropriate to its solution, while managing the trade-offs involved in design choices (data structures and algorithms)”. I looked at how I could improve the efficiency of this algorithm, and after researching other binary search trees, I aimed to replace the iterative nature of inserting nodes with a recursive method. This made the code cleaner and reduced potential errors in more complex traversals. I also added recursion to the search and removal logic functions to improve code management. Finally, I added a more efficient deletion algorithm with advanced error handling. This project is the most comprehensive application of data structures and algorithms in my time at SNHU, and the most applicable to real world applications. When initially considering how I would enhance this artifact I wanted to potentially build a more user friendly front end for the menu instead of the more basic command line interface (CLI) version from the original build, however I decided to be more in line with this course outcome and show that I can add to the original intent of the project in building college scheduling software, that adding more functionality was the better choice. By adding two new menu options and successfully integrating them into the existing data structure of the course menu, I showed that I followed computer science practices and standards more appropriate to this solution. I was not confident in my first enhancement, and after reconsidering how I would address this one I believe I am now more in line with the enhancement process. When revisiting this project, I took more time to try and understand how this data structure came together and how to effectively add these new menu items without taking awhile from the flow of the binary search tree. There were some challenges with getting the course menu to display, but I feel that this artifact now is a more worthy addition to my ePortfolio.


Artifact 3: Databases

Original Code: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/5970b2cd4fdf5594bcb25b0f4feb71b079bfe970/Artifact3/CS499%20Artifact%203%20Jack%20Coster%20Original.zip

Enhanced Code: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/5970b2cd4fdf5594bcb25b0f4feb71b079bfe970/Artifact3/CS499%20Artifact%203%20Jack%20Coster%20Enhanced.zip

Narrative: https://github.com/jcoster-SNHU/SNHU-ePortfolio/blob/5970b2cd4fdf5594bcb25b0f4feb71b079bfe970/Artifact3/Jack%20Coster%20CS%20499%20Artifact%203%20Narrative.docx




 













[Just the Docs]: https://just-the-docs.github.io/just-the-docs/
[GitHub Pages]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages
[README]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/blob/main/README.md
[Jekyll]: https://jekyllrb.com
[GitHub Pages / Actions workflow]: https://github.blog/changelog/2022-07-27-github-pages-custom-github-actions-workflows-beta/
[use this template]: https://github.com/just-the-docs/just-the-docs-template/generate
